I've hard coded some actions in, I'm
loading them, I'm cycling through them.
But what if we actually
took actions that didn't
even exist in the application
at that time, and
we were able to load them in so
they could really come from
anywhere is that somebody could send
me a set of actions in the mail.
And I could type them out or
load them in, and they could go.
So now what we're doing is
we're loading in an action.
And then we're able to like a random
action anywhere from in the world.
Pull it in and dispatched.
So not pre hardcoded actions, but
let's imagine just dynamic
actions from anywhere.
So what I have in the code,
you can check it,
out is I'm just fetching
a single action from a server.
I'm loading it and
then I'm going to dispatch it.
So if we go to the manual cycle,
we'll actually go to the dynamic step.
I'm gonna refresh this.
And I'm going to actually
just pull this up.
If we go to the Network tab,
I'm going to fetch an action and so
it's loading an action in And
you can see here in the response.
It's an action coming from this endpoint.
Now what I can do is, in fact, I think
I might even be able to change this,
but we'll go fetch or
let's dispatch this again.
Oops.
Let me refresh this.
I may have messed this up a little bit,
but fetch dispatch.
So now I was able to pull this in and
I was able to dispatch,
I wonder what would happen.
I'm going to be.
Rolling the dice here, but
if I go create let me go set this to No.
And I'm going to call this
individual please work.
I am begging you If this doesn't work,
it doesn't matter, but
let's just see what happens.
And it did not work.
Let's see if maybe I threw an air not,
well.
>> Did Ivy know who was with the strings?
>> So maybe it's because
my ID note wasn't string.
So let's.
Actually just delete that.
Please really work.
And I believe it creates.
And [LAUGH]
yes.
So that wa it.
So thank you very much.
And so now I was able to take and
over here dynamically create an action.
And then send it in.
And it worked.
So now, I think we know where kind
of this next logical step is,
like, what if you could load
in more than one action?
Well, we can.
And I think that's a fair request.
So.
Thank you for making it fetch and we'll
actually do the dynamic cycle here fetch.
And so
all I have now is a number of steps.
And so just to keep it simple,
it's select, select select, but
you could actually do.
Create select update delete.
So just imagine here that you can
actually dynamically load in,
in dispatch, any number of
actions to create this sequence.
So dispatch.
And it is now pulling these actions
over the wire via this endpoint.
And we're able to automate
the essentially a sequence
of user interactions via these
actions that we are creating.
And so, just to kind of stop and
summarize, where we are,
we are talking about creating time and
space by managing complexity, so
we created a essentially
a reducer Redux from scratch.
And then we started talking about
how to manage time with observables.
And then in this example over here,
that we've separated out
It created distance from
the actual user interaction
into the logic that handles it,
in so much that we're sideloading or
simulating or
reproducing those actions.
and then manipulating Or recreating
those actions in our application
without actually having to
click anything on the keyboard.
So again, if I just dispatch
my hands off the keyboard,
and it's still replicating
with high fidelity,
a real user interaction and so.
The question is, what does this mean?
What can we do with this
particular kind of paradigm or
this possibility that I'm presenting.
So if you have the ability
To recreate state, or
recreate a user interaction
at any given time.
Imagine if you had an application,
that was when it broke or
when there was an error.
It would capture that state and
the last known good state.
The current state, and then the action,
that transition from one state to another,
and it pulled it out.
And it was delivered to you what
that would allow you to do,
is then to load your state
into an application,
play that action, and
recreate the action or the bug or
the faulty action that puts
your app in a bad state.
And so now if we talk about,
if you know everything about a system and
the rules that govern it,
Then you can know everything about
that system in forward and reverse.
And so I've actually done this.
And there are a few libraries that exist.
There is a company log rocket that has
actually built in some tooling for
this, that when you throw
an error in your application.
Using a meta reducer is that it
captures those known states and
the action that caused it and
it just sends it out to the server.
You can then go back in
sideload that state,
play that action and
see what exactly happened.
To your application and how it broke.
So that's one very,
very compelling use case is that
I simply need to figure out
what happened and why it broke.
A second use case is that imagine.
If you had a bunch of repetitive task.
Well, you could essentially create
a macro that would capture those actions.
So think about if you
were doing something and
you had like a little record button,
I want to just record this and
all it did was capture
The actions being emitted and
I would save those into an array and
then you could
just replay them and
automate that particular task.
So this is essentially what
I have done here, is that.
Imagine just capturing
an array of actions.
And then being able to say
I just want to play this.
So now you have the ability
to accelerate and
automate repetitive tasks
because you've created space and
time, from the actual human
interaction to the result.
Until eventually It just looks
something very, very, very,
very quick, almost to the point where
it just, you can't even manage it or
you can't even really even process it
because it's just boop, it just happens.
And so I feel like this
could be a little faster but
you can imagine if you turn
this up to like 5 seconds.
And the third application that I
want to present is this
idea of a thin component.
And so in this angular application
that we're seeing here,
that Under the hood, it is absolutely true
that we are using Redux to
manage all of this state.
And so there's no secret about that.
There's no way that we could
do these particular things
With out having some form of Redux that
allows us to create this time and space.
Now what I haven't mentioned
is that the version or
the Redux implementation
of this Is not even
in the application itself
is that I've actually
taken the version of Redux
the implementation of it,
and I've put it into a node
server with socket IO.
What that means is that I can
just open up Another window and
because now I'm taking the state and
imagine the beginning of the workshop.
We're moving state.
We started with a hidden
state in a function And
we've just been systematically moving
it away from our component layer so
that they become as thin
as possible thinner.
And the question I asked myself is what if
we actually took our application state and
just ripped it out of
the application itself.
And we put it into a server
that we could then use
observable streams WebSockets
to then communicate
that state to a very, very thin client.
And so now what we can do
Is things like this.You'll
notice here that I am interacting
with the left application.
And as I do this, the right hand
application is updating as well.
Now think about this two separate
applications time and space.
They're totally separated in yet
because we move the state
into a even higher abstraction
that we are able to keep
these in sync because We've
simplified state management
across both of these,
they're sharing the same state.
And then we have found a way to
effectively communicate via web
sockets and observable streams.
And then because of this,
we can now Interact within
multiple applications and
yet they are connected.
And so now what we've done is
we've taken time and space.
We're starting to do interesting things
by abstracting these things out in such
a way That we can do things like imagine,
if you had a user that needed support.
Well, it would not be hard to
pull in their application state.
And then also now you're sharing it and
somebody remotely is providing support.
From one application to another.
Now, to top this off, and
just to wrap this up,
I want to show you
the version of Redux that I
am actually using in my application.
And hopefully,
this is going to look very familiar.
So this is in node.
So our actions, I have some sample data
clients, new client, initial state.
I have a store I
have actions or rather reducer functions.
So select client, clear client,
create client, update client.
This should look very familiar.
This reducer and then all I had to do
to enable this was drop in about 20
maybe 30 lines of node code,
socket IO code specifically to make
this available to the application
into just pull this in.
And so effectively,
this application right here,
is stateless because I've moved
all of that Into a server,
that we can now share,
via real time connected clients,
using, a reducer, or
a redux implementation,
that we use the four elements
of programming, to bill.
And so, with that demo complete,
this is where.
When we take and
we embrace first principles,
when we start to stack these
up in the proper way, and
we really truly understand them,
then we can do things like this.
And for me personally,
I can't think of anything more
enterprising than doing real
time distributed Applications
in the cloud and so
we are just right at that door.
But this is what managing
state control flow and
code volume will kind of pave the way and
set the foundation for
you to do things like this.